The 2012 Grafstein Lecture in Communications: Books, Libraries & The Digital Future
===

Speaker
---

[Dr. Robert Darnton](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robert_Darnton) - Harvard University


Notes
---

"Digital and analog are not enemies. They are mutally complentary."

How can anyone hope to find any information in the ever growing sea of information?

* More and more knowledge constantly being produced
* More and more information is constantly being surrounded by paywalls
* Should information be made a public good?
  * price of academic journals has increased at a rate of 4 times the rate of inflation since 1980
* Lots of affected parties
  * rising costs of periodicals causes cuts to monograph budgets
  * thereby effecting univerity presses who can no longer sell monographs to university libraries
  * thereby effecting young scholars who find it all the more difficult to publish

Digital Public Library of America - We have the technology!

More on the Judge Chin rejection of the Google Book settlement

* Side deal was cut between Google and Guild
  * 37% Google / 63% Guild
  * Would sell access back to libraries
  * Guild have ~8000 party to lawsuit
  * ~6000 individual authors opted out of lawsuit (at the same time)
  * Settlement was rejected - the "class" was affected
  * Google Book Search is dead
* 2010 - Darnton sent a 1 page primer to a bunch of people, and get a bunch of people in a room. DPLA took off from there.
* DPLA: Scope & Content
  * will *not* be a database
  * will be a distributed aggregate database
  * will begin with primilarly public domain monographs (Hathi Trust & Internet Archive)
  * Will have digitized newspapers from all 50 states
  * They plan on setting up a mobile scanning station and help small public libraries digitize materials
  * They have a distinct mission separate from local public libraries
    * they see the possible gambit of some local governement asshole saying they can cut all library funding because of the DPLA.
  * DPLA *could* have a moving wall of collection development
    * ex. excluding everything from the past 5-10 years
* DPLA: Costs
  * distributed system
  * will as fast as funding permits
  * interoperable with other national collections (Europeana)
  * will *not* enagage in preservation
  * will possibily enage in digitization of out of print materials
    * is there *truly* an "out of print" in the digital age?
* DPLA: Legal
  * Copyright needs to be reformed
  * Copyright needs to *stop* extending private interest well over the public interest
  * Copyright has the problme of lobbyists
    * some consider it impossible to rebalance the law back to the original 14/28 year setup
  * Best option would be reworking the 1973 fair use ammendment - specifically sections 107 & 108
  * Look at Norwegian program that is similar to the Google Book project - authorized by legislation
* DPLA: Technical Architecture (Beta Sprint)
  * 40 proposals were submitted
  * 6 winners
  * working on a prelimary protype right now
  * Public launch in April 2013
