Data Management Plans: Tips, Tricks and Tools
===

Presentor(s):
---

Carly Strasser

Perry Willett

Notes
---

What does CDL offer?

* UC3EZID
* UC3Merritt
* UC3DCXL
* etc

Data Management Plans 101

* Digital Data
  * Where data ends up?
    * Data & Metadata -> Paper -> Journal -> Web/Library
    * Data in a file cabinet, trash, deleted, etc
      * NOT ACCEPTABLE!
  * Who cares?
    * Funders
    * Institutions
    * Users
    * Future scientists
  * Trends in Data Archiving
    * Journal publishers
      * Joint Data Archiving Agreement
      * DRYAD
      * Put data in DRYAD and point to data when publishing papers
    * Data Papers
      * Ecological Archives, Beyond the PDF
    * Funders
      * Data management requirements
* What is a data management plan?
  * A document that describes what you will do with your data during and after you complete your research
* Why should I prepare a data management plan?
  * Saves time
  * Increases efficiency
  * Easier to use data
  * Others can understand & use data
  * Credit for data products
  * Carrot/Stick -> Funders require plan now : NSF
* NSF DMP Requirements
  * the types of data
    * Type of data produced
    * Relationship to exisiting data
    * How/when/where will the data be captured or created
    * How will the data be processed
    * etc
  * the standard to be used for data and metadata
    * data reporting
      * who, what, where, when, why, how
      * what metadata are needed to make the data meaningful
      * how will you create or capture these metadata
      * why have you chosen particular sets 
  * policies for access and sharing
    * obligation to share?
    * how, when, where do you make the data available?
    * granting access
    * copyright
    * permission restrictions
    * embargo periods?
    * ethical and privacy issues?
    * foreable data users?
    * how to cite?
  * provisions for re-use
  * plans for archiving
    * what data will be preserved, for how long?
    * where will the data be preserved?
    * what data transformations need to occur?
    * what metadata will be preserved?
* NSF Vision
  * DMPs and their evaluation will *grow & change* over time
  * *Peer review* will determine next steps
  * *Community-driven* guidelines
    * disciplines have different definitions
    * flexibility at the directorate and division levels
    * tailer implementations
  * DMPs are a good *first step* towards improving data stewardship
    * starting discussion
    * scientists learning about data management
  * Additional expertise on panels to effectively evaluate DMPs(?)
* Budget!
  * Costs of data preparation & documentation
    * hardware
    * personnel
    * archive fee
  * request funding for the above!
* Toolbox
  * DataONE - www.dataone.org
    * data education tutorials
    * database of best practices & software toos
    * links to DMPTool
    * Primer on data management
  * DCXL website - dcxl.cdlib.org
    * Data education tutorial
    * Primer on data management
    * Other resources
  * Institutional Services
    * UC Community: www.cdlib.org/services/uc3
      * UC3Merritt (deposit|share|preserve data)
      * UC3EZID
        * precise identification of a dataset
        * credit to data producers and data publishers
        * link traditional literature to data
     * DSpace, DataSpace, etc
  * DMPTool dmp.cdlib.org
    * Helps researchers meet requirement of NSF and other U.S. funding agencies
    * Guides researchers through the process of creating a data management plan
    * Is available to everyone at no cost
    * Provides additional help for researchers
  * Goals of the DMPTool
    * To provide researchers with a simple way to create a DMP by giving them information from the funding agency
      * resources and services to help them manage data
      * help text for specific questions
      * suggested answeres to questions that they can simply cut-and-paste
      * news and events related to data management on their campus
  * DMPTool project
    * Partners: CDL, DataONE, Smithsonian, UCLA, UCSD, UIUC, UVa, Digital Curation Centre (UK)
    * Started working in January 2011
    * Developed requirements, divided work among partners, self-funded
  * Future Development
    * partners' meeting in late Jan. 2012 to discuss
      * user survey results
      * priorities for additional development
  * How to participate
    * Shibboleth login
    * Add links to local resources, help text, etc
