Keynote
===

Speaker
---

Mitch Freedman, former President of the American Library Association


Abstract
---

Examine the deep structural challenges our profession faces, how they manifest themselves in the workplace and how they can be successfully met.


Notes
---

CLA and alternatives to it!

  * problem? pretty much anybody can be members (including vendors)
  * ^^^ lots of conflicts of interest (but isn't this a given with associations?)
  * how can a library association be an effective advocate for its librarian members?
  * time to slag on CLA for its bullshit
    * LAC cuts (CLA support LAC management)
    * censoring those demonstrating against the LAC cuts
  * Pusillanimous! "marked by contemptible timidity"
  * Comparing ALA actions for defending LoC
  * Alternatives?
    * Change CLA leadership
    * Create a new association
    * Solutions?
      * take over cla policy making by democratic means - velvet revolution
        * core of cla members committed to the fight
      * create a competitive association
        * this failed in the US (national library association)
        * ALA-APA (allied professional association)
        * ^^^ separate but allied association (separate tax status)
      * Danish Union of Librarians
        * only qualified professions can be members
        * formed independent trade union
      * CAUT
        * only academic
        * how wonderful would it be if all librarians in canada spoke with a single voice!?
  * Deprofessionalization?
    * blame oclc - copy catalogers? (not sure if I agree)
    * "information assistants" replacing reference librarians
  * Solutions?
    * strong and viable unions
    * to include and dis-clude non-professionals?
      * administrations can and will play us against each other
