Who Speaks for Libraries and Librarians?
===

Speakers
---

Lisa Sloniowski, York University

Jennifer Dekker, University of Ottawa


Abstract
---

National library organizations should be independent voices for our interests but too often it seems they are entities under outside influence. Librarians Lisa Sloniowski (York University) and Jennifer Dekker (University of Ottawa) critically examine the role of leadership in the library community.


Notes
---

Yay Lisa!

"You are not a loan."

Who speaks for librarians?

  * slag on CLA some more!
  * examine the underlying ideologies

Ideologies (three examples):

  * Karen Adams: "CLA is a library association, not a librarians association."
  * OLA backing off from taking stances on political issues (G20 stance)
  * NELI brainwashing (public good or public value?)

Neoliberalism as an economic doctrine in library land

  * The library is more important than its workers
  * Associations are only there for career advancement and networking
    * *not* values
    * *not* citizenship
    * *not* public good
  * self-recognition ahead of public good (NELI)
  * "when we try to evaluate ourselves in neoliberal logic, we will always fail."
  * "there is nothing natural about the commidification of information behind paywalls."
  * the struggles against knowledge are proliferating
  * ^^^ where do we want to sit?
  * YES! We have a civic responsibility

How do we push back?  
  
  * Building solidarity, not just in our profession, but with other civic workers
  * libraries are the product of labour
  * libraries exist for our users, but exist from us.

Jennifer!!! 

CLA and leadership around library advocacy

  * yes! CLA has members ready for advocacy
  * CLA could lead a massive pan library movement
  * CLA has the potential, and has the past
    * CLA once advocated for the role of librarians in the workplace
    * sadly, it is now irrelevant
  * CLA has opposed wrongful dismissals
  * CLA has opposed bad job postings
  * CLA has done research on academic librarian salaries, and rankings
  * CLA has advocated for parity with faculty
  * CLA has worked with CAUT on academic librarian status as faculty, and thus members of CAUT
  * CLA has organized collective bargaining workshop

What is the right path?

  * an all out general strike?
  * more critical library school instruction?
  * more alliances
  * more advocacy
  * more media
  * the American library PAC
  * identify political candidates

