Librarians as Teachers, Researchers and Community Members
===

Speakers
--

Francesca Holyoke, University of New Brunswick
Karen Jensen, Concordia University
Meg Raven, Mount Saint Vincent University


Abstract
---

Academic status is equated with teaching, research and service. Librarians Francesca Holyoke (University of New Brunswick), Karen Jensen (Concordia University) and Meg Raven (Mount Saint Vincent University) will explore how best these facets of our work are operationalized in the academic librarian context and the role they play in protecting and advancing our profession.


Notes
---

Teaching (Librarians as Teachers)

  * Survey data
    * Workshops - 95%
    * Integrated instruction - 77%
    * Library courses (non-credit) - 42%
    * Non-library credit courses - 34%
    * Library credit courses - 27%
  * Should librarians teach?
    * Growing consensus is yes
    * Teaching vs. Instruction debate
    * History precedent: professors were the first librarians
    * Teaching must involve more than complex reference interactions or one-shot information literacy workshops
  * How is teaching operationalized in the academic librarian context?
    * Librarians as teachers: we apply the label "teaching" to a variety of activities
      * reference instruction
      * one-shot classes
      * workshops
      * collaborative courses
      * integrated content
      * credit courses
    * in collective agreements
      * usually included with professional practice
      * not drawn out as a specific responsibility
    * can be invisible work
    * not all librarians are involved in teaching
  * Cons of teaching
    * lack of professional preparation
    * inflexibility of schedule
    * time requirements of teaching
    * colleagues who do not understand value of teaching
    * equity issues - librarians don't have one term free of teaching
    * equitable compensation
    * more part-time instructors
  * Teaching challenges
    * lack of standardization
    * will those not teaching lose credibility or become vulnerable?
    * trend in higher-ed to promote core competencies
    * less time for research
    * self confidence - can we do it?
  * Benefits
    * closer interaction with students over an extended period of time
    * deeper understanding of faculty workload
    * better understanding of curricular needs
    * new way of looking at collection development
    * enhanced faculty status
    * increased intellectual stimulation
    * sharper self-assessment of teaching performance
  * Why we should be taking up more credit based teaching
    * academic librarianship: service profession or academic discipline?
      * If academic discipline = teaching, research, service
    * revitalized role for librarians and library on campus
    * more active participation in teaching and scholarly life will allow for greater input in campus strategic planning
  * What to do to advance teaching?
    * Embrace teaching
    * Recognize teaching as more than just another professional duty
    * Hire with teaching in mind
    * Reassign non-professional duties
    * Consider a library-based full credit course
    * Staffing levels are a management responsibility - don't defer teaching due to too few staff
  * What needs to be done?
    * At the national level
      * review CAUT discussion paper on teaching
      * continue to survey librarians on their teaching practices
      * lobby for curricular changes in MLIS programs that support librarian teaching
      * establish best practices
    * At the local level
      * define our professional identity to include teaching
      * establish criteria for the evaluation and review of teaching
      * establish criteria for teaching excellence
      * better manage this part of our workload through thoughtful contract language

Research (or just Fran rocking the mic)

  * Model clause on the scholarly activities of academic librarians
    * the pursuit of research, study, educational and other scholarly activities shall constitute a normal component of a librarian's workload
    * a librarian shall have the right to devote up to 40% of normal workload to the pursuit of research studies and other scholarly activities
    * MOAR AND MOAR
  * Is research...
    * Part of the normal workload?
    * required for promotion, tenure?
    * pursued for interest
    * the same as scholarly activity?
    * the same for librarians and faculty?
    * influenced by the "practitioner researcher" paradigm
  * Is the MLS sufficient for preparing librarians for research?
  * why should we take ownership of research?
    * if we permit it to become only evidence based practice rather than research-based practice research by librarians will be reduced to complying with metrics
    * our own research is vital to protect and advance our profession otherwise we will be defined by others
  * ownership challenges
    * will those who do no research lose credibility?
    * might this lead to two-tiered (streamed division) of academic librarianship?
    * funding?

Community/Service

  * you gain something by engaging in community service!
  * what does service mean to academic librarians?
    * definitions of service
      * same as faculty?
      * relationship with tenure process and academic librarians professional status
      * how to compare across institutions?
      * [http://academic-librarian-status.wikispaces.com](http://academic-librarian-status.wikispaces.com/)
  * what role does service plan in protecting and advancing our profession?
    * collegial governance
    * caut and acrl standards for faculty status for librarians
    * library governance
      * understood to include participation in the development of policies and procedures for the library including the hiring, promotion, tenure for colleagues
