24/7 Talks (Lightning talks)
===

Speaker(s)
---

Azhar Hussain (Centre for Research Communications), Linda Newman (University of Cincinati), William Nixon (University of Glasgow), Anna Jordanous (Centre for e-Research, King's College London), Mark Bussey (Data Curation Experts), Peter Millington (Centre for Research Communications, University of Nottingham), Sharon Farnel (University of Alberta)

Notes
---

An Investigation into Journal Research Data Policies: Lessons from the JoRD Project (Azhar Hussain)

* Current state of journal policies on research data
  * relatively little research on this
  * lots of inconsistency
  * little guidance to authors
  * study of 371 journals

Creative Re-Use of geographic and historical data and documents (Linda Newman)

* Map data presented through Google Fusion Tables

Enlighten: The evolving (and key) research management roles of the Institutional Repository (William Nixon)

* YAY! Anne of green gables joke.

Reusing modern tools and techniques to reproduce and research ancient texts (Anna Jordanous)

* Islandora based digital editions of ancient texts
* Integrated TEI editor - looks pretty slick!

Training, the (not so) secret key to repository survivability (Mark Bussey)

* YES! THIS! TRAINING.
* training and job quality
  * staff anxiety is counter-productive
  * new challenges create flow experiences
  * training provides a medium to communicate patters and conventions
  * sharing of best practices enchances software quality
  * understaning system capabilities
  * sustainability!
  * provides a mean to address team attrition
  * outreach! 
    * helps publicize your project
    * helps draw new talent
    * keeps you honest about the project
* How?
  * no one solution
  * the only bad training is no plan
  * have big ambitions, but small steps
  * train trainers

Counting on OpenDOAR (Peter Millington)


Beyond one size fits all. A tiered model for digital preservation (Sharon Farnel)

* Tiered assessment model:
  * type of resource
    * nature of the resource
    * descending order of priority
  * archival responsibility
    * risk involved in not undertaking certain preservation actions
    * identify responsibility - sole, shared, third-party
  * project preservability
