[Update on the Islandora Project and Community](http://or2013.net/sessions/update-islandora-project-and-community)
===

Speaker(s)
---

Mark Leggot (UPEI)

Abstract
---

The Islandora project has become one of the most widely used “front-end” stacks for the Fedora repository system. The Islandora community is vibrant and growing, with an estimate of hundreds of implementations in countries all over the world. The system is used in academic libraries, museums, cultural organizations and private companies and the common interest is a flexible digital asset management system. Islandora’s architecture is an ideal addition to the flexibility of the Drupal and Fedora components that are key parts of the software stack, providing a robust approach to the digital stewardship of a wide range of assets, from traditional digital library systems to complex research data. This session will provide an update on the project, an overview of the latest releases, examples of recent projects, and efforts to integrate Islandora with other repository systems.

Notes
---

New!

* [Taverna](http://www.taverna.org.uk/) workflows - this is interesting. I've heard about this like five times this week.
* Editorial workflows
  * simple approach to editorial workflows
  * provides "human" nodes in workflow
* Form builder
  * solr lookups
  * can I do identifiers with this!?
* Admin functions
  * lots of admin contributions
  * yay! there is my stuff
* Preservation services
  * TechDS + DescDC + RightsDS + AuditDS to create a dynamic PREMIS record
  * Duracloud support via "The Vault" module
  * Archivematica integration
* Compound image module
  * Well, McMaster can do something with the postcards now
  
