Community Approaches
===

Topics
---

Preservation Is Knowledge: A community-driven preservation approach
*Sophie Derrot, Louise Fauduet, Clément Oury and Sébastien Peyrard*

Developing a Community Capability Model Framework for data-intensive research
*Liz Lyon, Alex Ball, Monica Duke and Michael Day*

CRISP: Crowdsourcing Representation Information to Support Preservation
*Maureen Pennock, Andrew N. Jackson and Paul Wheatley*

Notes
---

Working with web archivists

  * Legal mandate to preserve French web since 2006
  * Relying on the use of archival crawling bots
  * Grab the exchange protocols, mime type, etc? (not sure if they are using wget-warc or not)
  * warc file format is used for archiving -- ok they must be using wget-warc
  
Data-intensive research ([slides](http://www.slideshare.net/michaelday/developing-a-ccmf))

  * Jim Gray's "Fourth Pardigm"
  * We're talking about:
    * Research involving large amounts of data
    * Data combined from multiple disciplines
    * Data requiring signicant processing
  * USE THE DAMN MICROPHONE AT THE PODIUM
  * Going over some capability models (can't really understand the non-microphone mumbling)

cRIsp

  * How are we doing?
    * moved on from talking about it, to actually doing it
    * need to stop and evaluate, and checkout the issues
  * problems:
    * duplication of effort
    * poorly targeted efforts
    * creation of tools or resources that are difficult to maintain and/or reuse
  * crowdsourcing
    * exploit existing work more effectively
    * share and communicate!
  * [bit.ly/spruce-collaborate](http://bit.ly/spruce-collaborate)
  * he's loving the library stack exchange site - crowdsourcing a faq
  * what makes the above a success?
    * appeal widely to a wide user base
    * needs to be RELEVANT!
    * crowdsource the collection representation information
    * (representation information is the information that maps a data object into more meaningful concepts!)
  * RI examples
    * descriptive representation information
    * instantiated representation information
  * WE HAVE SO MANY!
    * PRONOM
    * DCC
    * Open Planets
    * JHove
    * UDFR
    * LoC, etc
  * What's the problem?
    * Lack of content
    * Duplication
    * Lack of use
    * Lack of engagement
    * CONTENT IS KING!
  * What's the solution?
    * We, us, the community!
    * this is not without risks
  * What is [cRIsp](http://wiki.opf-labs.org/display/SPR/Crowd+sourced+Representation+Information+for+Supporting+Preservation+(CRISP))?
    * quick and simple solution
    * GET THE DATA - THAT IS OUR OBJECTIVE!
    * make the data useful
    * start with a URL and contribute it to the project (twitter or google form)
    * deduplicate entries via script, then Q&A but a human
    * not a complete solution - but a first step!
  * How can you help?
    * help curate the spreadsheet
    * archive the links in the spreadsheet
    * spread the word!


