Curatation & The Cloud + New Strategies & Tools + Practical Preservation for Production Entities
===

Discussion Topics
---

*Curation and the cloud (Lisa Snider)* 

What kind of tools and strategies can we use to preserve cloud based services and social media while still preserving authenticity? Do we have to come up with different preservation strategies and use different digital forensics tools (compared to what we use for physical media)? Additionally, what tools do we use to provide user access to electronic material, such as emails, social media, Google docs, etc.?

*New Strategies/Tools for New Technology? (Lisa Snider)*

With the popularity of new storage devices, such as SSDs, how can we preserve authenticity when our current forensics tools can’t keep up with them? What kinds of strategies can we employ to preserve these kinds of materials?

*Practical digital preservation solutions for production entities (Kara Van Malssen)* 

Digital preservation solutions have primarily been developed by and for collecting institutions. Applying these within entities that are actively producing content is a challenge, and thus far has not been done consistently and/or effectively. What are digital preservation workflows for institutions with little time or resources to devote to digital preservation, with valuable assets in active use? What simple technologies could support digital preservation and be integrated into existing toolsets, such as DAMs, CMSs, or other ECM tools?

Notes
---

How do you preserve cloud based mail?

  * Hotmail, GMail, Yahoo!, etc.
  * Grabbing all of the headers -- how do you do that?
  * Presentation
    * How folks flag items
    * How mail is organized
    * How mail is "sorted"
  * What is the SIP?
    * everything from the beginning transmission header
    * use email account standard xml schema
    * is it fine to just use a mail client to snag everything - IMAP
    * Are attachments included?
  * What is the DIP?
    * How do we present this to an end user?
    * What is access?
    * What is IP rights?
  * Do we have levels of standards?
    * Gold -- we do this
    * Silver -- we do this
    * Bronze -- we do this
    * Tin -- we didn't do shit
  * What are the tools, procedures, standards that Records Management folks use?

How do we decide whether we preserve the data or all of the contextual information around it?

  * Copyright is always going to be the big first issue
  * It really depends
    * What exactly to we want to disseminate?
    * Who is going to preserve the YouTube comments?
    * What is the historical value?
    * What purview do you have for your collection?
  * Should we have standard and best practices for archiving social media content?
  * Should or does ^^-- personal digital archiving already have such a list or procedures
  * Records management best practices make the best sense
    * You're a person of record, or you're not a person of record
    * How much space does one allot for this?

