# NOW AND FOREVER - DIGITAL PRESERVATION IN CANADA

## Speakers

Debbie Feisst, Public Services Librarian, University of Alberta Libraries
Stephen Marks, Digital Preservation Librarian, Scholars Portal, OCUL
Tatiana Usova, Head Librarian, Bibliothèque Saint-Jean, University of Alberta

## Abstract

The creation and preservation of digital materials is a frequent challenge in modern librarianship. A holistic view of the field will be covered – beginning with an active preservation program at the University of Alberta Libraries, followed by an exploration of the challenges and opportunities at the national level, and ending with a discussion on the education of current and next-generation librarians, and what we can all do to promote a sustainable digital future.

## Notes

* Part 1 - background
  * the irony of a digital preservation presentation done in Prezi :+1:
  * Background history of born digital objects
  * Governmental electronic publishing, and their inability to maintain access and preserve their documents (including versioning)
  * MIT Technology review paper (?) about analysis of twitter links after arab spring - 10% of links no longer worked
  * A little bit about NDIIPP
  * A little bit about the states of sustainability report
  * _suddenly steve's laptop shutsdown_
  * Government of Canada web archive
    * 170 million objects
    * started in 2005
    * stopped archiving in 2009
    * only collect pdfs now
    * _*WTF*_!?
  * MEANWHILE, IN ALBERTA...
    * what do we preserve?
    * sounds like mostly educational content
* Part 2 - web archiving
  * Decision making behind U of A web archiving projects
    * path to web archiving
      * 2001 printed websited and catalogued URLs
      * 2004 wayback machine
      * 2005 Archive-It launched
      * 2010 U of A Libraries Archvie-It subscription
    * Archive-It - Internet Archive subscription based local web archiving platform
    * U of A Libraries web archiving
      * started in summer of 2010
      * building management practices around the platform
        * metadata standards
        * collection standards - why do we archive/curate?
        * workflow practices
        * how does it all work!?
      * YAY! One does not simply slide - One does not simply... walk into the deep web
      * Archive It
        * setup frequency crawls
        * full-text search of archived sites
      * cataloguing, classification, metadata
        * how well can we provide access to this content?
        * title, subject, genre, keywords
        * Archive-It allows the ability to add custom metadata fields
* Part 3 - digitization
  * digitized a bunch of stuff through internet archive at u of t
  * copyright clearance
  * Geist on crown copyright
    * if it is not used for commercial purposes, translated, etc...
    * you can use it 
  * exposing digitized objects through primo
* Part 4 - peers
  * U Sask - historical textbook collection
  * MUN - Digital Archives Initiative
  * OISE - Ontario curriculum documents, and out of copyright textbooks
* Part 5 - sustainability and doing it
  * why is it important?
    * library as the place
    * library as the people
    * library as the things <--> ALL ABOUT THE THINGS!
  * Digital preservation is not a project, it is apart of all of the things
  * three-legged stool model - digital preservation
    * seat - digital preservation
    * legs:
      * technology
        * do we need yet another repository platform, or can we just use the existing tools
        * be thoughtful about the systems we're developing,
        * BUT! Just start accession stuff
        * we have a lot of tools
        * we still need more, but we've got enough to get started
        * start accessioning!
        * don't get overconfident - use the tools you have in a thoughtful way!
        * **BACKUPS ARE NOT PRESERVATION!!!**
        * **YOUR PRESERVATION COPY IS NOT A BACKUP!!!**
      * organizations
        * policy!!!
        * know your rights!
          * copyright act
          * aoda
      * resources
        * you mean advocay right, let's advocate for digital preservation!
        * IT DOESN'T WORK ^
        * preserveration and digital preservation is not sexy
        * work smarter, not harder
        * don't rent, buy!
        * work together!!!
        * if we can't live together, we're going to die alone
