Opening Keynote: From Access to Interactivity
==============================================

Speaker
-------
Jon Beasley-Murray, Assistant Professor, University of British Columbia

http://access2011.library.ubc.ca/speakers/#jon-beasley-murray

http://posthegemony.blogspot.com/

Abstract
--------
The issue of “access” is in the first place about providing the public with the goods generated by public institutions. This should be obvious: universities exist for the public good, and the knowledge and skills that they develop should be immediately available to the public. With the rise of digitalization, the Internet, and the various technical capabilities for almost unlimited reproduction and dissemination of information, this should be the heyday of the university as an organization oriented towards the common good.

But despite the best efforts of many within the institution, in fact the university’s reputation has reached a new low. In part this is because of the work of lobbies that struggle valiantly against access at every level (rapacious academic publishers, for instance). In part it is because of a new right-wing populism that denigrates the very notion of the public and scorns any effort of the state to foster or protect the common good. But in part is is also because the university has been slow to realize the possibilities enabled in this new information age.

My talk will examine what I have elsewhere called “Knowledge 3.0″ and outline the ways in which universities should proactively encourage engagement with the new forms taken by the public sphere and the common good in the twenty-first century. This entails not merely sitting back and allowing the public to access the halls of academia. It also requires an interactive intervention into the new ways in which knowledge is produced and disseminated.

Notes
-----
OH MY. KNOWLEDGE 3.0

"The privatization of a university is the death of a university."

rails on:
- Access Copyright
- Blackboard
- Privatization of the common
- Academic publishing

"Libraries are like Vegas - turning every available space into gaming machines."

Rather than access, interactivity... university should not pander to, or service society.

Borges teaches us that meaning is interactive - reading is never passive - readers  help produce the meaning of a text

For the most part speaking to the choir, but great talk
